---
title: About
---
Hi, my name is Marijan, I'm a freelancing Software Engineer and this blog covers the following topics: Haskell, C++, Nix/ NixOS and Software Engineering.

One might ask the question "But why exactly these topics?"

Well just like some of you reading this, I've attended a university lecture called "Software Engineering" and I've read quite a few books on Software Engineering covering topics like requirements engineering, software architecture, design patterns, testing, etc.

And during my time at university and after graduating throughout my professional journey so far, I worked on software projects in many different contexts and I was forced to use and learn a lot of different programming paradigms and respective technologies.

On every single project I strived to apply the "Software Engineering Principles" I learned as good as possible. But sooner or later I encountered boundaries with the technologies used and I discovered nasty stuff that other people did that now makes my life harder than necessary.

To shorten the story, in Haskell and Nix I've found the only technologies existing right now that allow me to build applications such that most of the principles are adhered by design.

 - Haskell: Haskells powerfull static and strict typesystem, the encapsulation of I/O through the IO Monad, libraries like hspec, QuickCheck, servant, esqueleto etc. make it the most powerfull language to write robust/ high quality application software.
 - Nix/ NixOS: Sooner or later every Software Engineer will get frustrated managing dependencies (runtime, build or environment). Moreover the Software Engineer will have the desire to deploy the developed applications to production. The Nix ecosystem gave me the most powerfull tools I found so far to solve these problems.


This site is generated by <a class="link" href="http://jaspervdj.be/hakyll">Hakyll</a> and hosted on <a class="link" href="https://srht.site">sourcehut pages</a>.
